So I did a prior, or at a later date.
He mentioned security problems in the airport.
So my correct?
Yes, sir, the Navy, sir.
And the Navy?
Yes, sir.
So as a result of this meeting, on the bumper flip.
You, on the roof, testify, what security.
And Mr. Adams is not so.
He just needs to look to you and to the sun.
Whether you've watched through the airport, the Navy, and the problem depends.
I would say that's a substantial statement.
If you heard the testimony of both Mr. Stevens and Mr. Adams,
but they do not, I did say that they have a suggestion.
I heard that you have to be careful to pop them in the fence.
And I heard what they said, sir.
Somebody not don't do.
Somebody is certainly mistaken, sir.
It's not us.
When we, the memorandum of November, November the 17th,
while that a memorandum with you prepared, I believe I did.
Now that referred to a meeting of his health, a Martin Club in New York,
attended by Mr. Staden, Mr. Adams, Mr. Carl, Senator New York, sir.
Yes, sir.
That was me.
You were parked, you memorandum.
But it's like there again.
I asked you exactly the airport from the Navy.
I spoke to the President of the York memorandum.
At this meeting, Steven began saying,
he worked to resolve the conjecture of the airport from Navy
and the personnel employed directly by the Phantom Service.
The service of continuing to Army here, he did sir.
Now is this taken up made in the SNR manner as the statement of Mr. Staden's office?
Yes, sir.
There was a discussion about that, I think, about the general situation during lunch.
Then, as we were leaving the room, we ate in one room,
and then we went across the hall to another room to, that was the yet,
and on the Harry Dexter White hearing, for on television and Mr. Brown,
how, and Director Hoover, it's testify.
Mr. Steven's out of television set brought up, and we went into the next room.
I recall that we were leaving the room.
Mr. Steven, I think, in the hearing, some people slept in the McCarthy at the door,
and that the committee couldn't just drop this on the investigation for a while,
and going to the Navy and the Air Force, and that the fence to pop in the mouthware,
and let the Army along for a while.
Here, you're kept following to this one under old.
I am, you heard, Professor Mooney, of Mr. Staden's and Mr. Adams,
and they denied that they made it request, so once again,
for a clear fence committee,
Professor, somebody at Certainly Mistaken, and once again sir, I am not.
And you have the number of them from yourself,
and send them across the other side of the night.
Yes sir, I'm familiar with that.
And that's the number of them you've faced here.
John Adams said today that, all enough the idea,
about investigating the Air Force, he got specific information for us about the Air Force base,
but there was a large number of them in the section.
He said they would trade out that information,
if we were telling what the next Army project was,
that we would investigate.
Now you, we testify that that memorandum is a bank.
Yes sir.
And that, Mr. Adams offered to trade you information on the Air Force,
if you would lay off the Army,
and let the insides of that so-called map incident send the front.
That's right.
And you heard Mr. Adams testify,
I could send that map incident,
yes sir, he gives a different version of it.
That's all I have, Mr. Jones.
Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make a,
just a brief statement before asking some questions.
Total time in the hearings,
the reference has been made to the fact that the Democrats left the committee,
and were asked for, we have sent ourselves.
I just want to say that whenever,
let's throw it up again, I shall give the fact
to the American public why we left.
I think we'll say a lot of time if we don't do it again,
but I'm going to make a free statement now,
so that the American public will fully understand why we left.
The Democrats left the committee last July for a very good and valid reason.
The Senator McClellan stated, we oppose one-man rule.
We oppose the principle of delegating the chairman,
full and final authority to hire and fire staff personnel.
That's a reason,
for our leaving can best be demonstrated
by the change in the rules
that was made when we returned in January.
And may I say also to the American public,
and so that the public will fully understand
that the matters we're now investigating all occurred,
as a matter of fact, they started a day or two after we left the committee
and continued during our absence.
And so, apparently,
there must have been a good and sound reason for our leaving.
I think if we have been on the committee,
we might not now be spending a lot of time investigating that,
which is taking the time of this committee.
I think we might well say that when the rules were changed,
we were not advised,
at least I was not advised,
or what was going to face this.
To be patient for a moment,
I think we might complain of entrapment,
because we had no knowledge
that we were going to be subjected
to a long, long hearing when we went back on the committee.
The time the rules were changed to give to the committee
the full authority,
members of the committee,
on the hiring and firing staff personnel.
Mr. Cohn,
you have stated that the committee is being tied up on the investigation
of these communists and the defense plan.
That's one of the important matters.
And that's one of the key important matters I think it is.
Well, now let me ask you this.
These people are working in defense plans,
and you mean private industry
that are doing work for the government?
Yes sir.
We have as a head of the defense establishment,
Mr. Charles Wilson.
Yes sir.
That's correct?
Now if we have 135 communists working in defense plans,
wouldn't it be found to send all the mains to Mr. Charles Wilson immediately?
And put him on the spot
and ask for these people to be dealt with according to my opinion,
turn of persons.
It's only an opinion no sir.
Well why do you say no?
Well sir, if you just take the correct case,
as an example,
or we've gotten this double clock in long delay over a long period of time,
we've got no results, no action of people who cover them up,
the people who promoted the decision.
You think Mr. Charles Wilson,
the former head of general voters,
would want to cover up communist working in private industry?
Sure, I'm sure Mr. Charles Wilson will not want to cover up any communists there,
because that's not a practical matter.
Son of a jack from URS,
give me how I thought we could get results on this.
I think the way we can get results on this,
or is the way we've been getting results on this and the pit.
And that is by holding first executive sessions,
and then public hearings,
when the employees and these defense plans,
having been named as communists,
in both the Fifth Amendment,
most of the responsible think companies in this country,
have adopted a rule that,
after both Fifth Amendment claims are made,
by people currently working in defense plans,
these companies will fire.
So, Fifth Amendment communists.
That rule has been adopted by General Electric,
as a result of the work of this committee,
by the International Telephone and Telegraph Company,
and by other companies.
The way to get the results there,
by hearing, get these people in public sessions,
have them claim that the Fifth Amendment,
have the witnesses named them as communists,
have them fire from the defense plan.
I don't think Mr. Wilson is a matter of fact,
that's the power to fire them from the Fifth Amendment.
You see, he doesn't have the power to fire,
if I don't believe that he does.
Well, Mr. Cohen, wouldn't this be putting him on the spot
if you sent him a list of names of people
who are alleged to be communists,
and then he did nothing about it?
Well, sir, because I imagine the reply
that we would get would be,
these people do not work for the United States government
as such.
They work for defense plans, which do subcontracts work,
you work for the United States government.
Therefore, we don't have the jurisdiction to hire or fire the people.
All right, let me just finish this,
and I'll be glad to you for a complete question.
Well, Mr. Cohen,
what you mean to say is that you do not have enough faith
and this administration,
that they will not do anything about removing these people
who are alleged to be communists?
No, sir, I have not said that.
Well, Mr. Wilkblow, I mean, you say that Mr. Wilson
wouldn't do anything about it,
or he would pass the box or do something like that.
Is that it?
No, sir, I told you two things probably the most important
and the two is that the defense department itself does not have the power
to hire or fire these communists in defense plans.
That can be done only by the private employers.
They can not keep you in your letters and ask.
Why don't you, in your letter, you're anticipating all that,
suggest Mr. Wilson,
that you realize that there's no law dealing with it directly,
but that he takes appropriate action because they're the...
Well, when it's under you, would you, for a minute?
Well, it's not all the by time we're getting to be in the office.
Could you...
May I say to the senator,
if you want to have any information we have on the final transmit
that to Charlie Wilson,
I'll be glad to call a meeting of the committee
and take that up with the committee.
We do have a science-able number of individuals who are currently
our communists working as a today in defense plans.
It is not up to my chief counsel to make that decision
that it's the senator's morseling and wants us to transmit
that to the secretary of defense.
I frankly can see no objections to doing it,
and I think we should take that up with a meeting of the committee,
however, that's the sort of thing that can be held up
for this hearing you're holding today.
Well, Thunder, I'm just trying to get it to heartless,
I might say, and respond to your suggestions
and respond to your suggestions.
We on the committee haven't yet received the 135 names that we asked for,
so it's pretty hard for us to join in a trash middle
or something we don't know about transmitting.
Well, now, Mr. Thomas, one other...
Uh, Mr. Schubert, I just...
May I say this?
Have we received them?
Uh, I will give you all the information at any time
that the members of this committee want to meet with me.
I have refrained, wait a minute, I have refrained from calling a meeting
because I have felt you've been all trivipium is dead.
Now, Mr. Chairman, may I say,
a son or a month, may I have the attention?
May I say this, uh, if the members of this committee
care to meet with me at any time over the noon hour,
in any evening, I'd be more than happy to give them a
uh, macro and picture of all of the
macro to work building up.
I would...
I do not have time to order any special reports
made for the members of the committee because of the staff as they know.
Well, Mr. Collins, I take a thing you feel that, uh,
by letter we wouldn't accomplish as much.
May I suggest then that these names be turned over the generic committee,
which could expose the 135 people.
What if time is of the essence, what's the answer?
Uh, I would say this, I have never undertaken before to
tell the gender committee what to do or what to investigate.
At the time, this investigation came up,
I spoke with the chief counsel for the gender committee,
and it was decided that they were their involvement
with other investigations with such that this investigation should
appropriately be taken up by this committee.
We began it, sir.
We're well into what we've had terrific results in it.
We have actually gotten a lot of fifth amendment communists out of vital defense.
Well, I'm asking around about 135.
Yes, sir.
We're in the middle of it.
We started the job, and if you're going to get another committee to start in at the very beginning
and go back again, there's probably going to be a lot of duplication and waste of time.
And the last I heard the gender committee was busy on other things and could not undertake
this investigation.
Well, Mr. Collins, the staff is available.
They're not the allegations made that we have these people who are not now being employed
or correction of the committee work.
Why not just turn the staff over and insist on them and expose them immediately?
If you say that exposure is the only way that we can remove these people because Mr. Wilson
won't do anything about it, who's ahead of the defense establishment and former head of general voters.
Should we send our agents out to serve it?
I think I said I don't think that Mr. Wilson has the power to do anything about it.
These people work for the private industry.
It is only their employers who can fire them, not Mr. Charles Wilson and the employers have adopted an arrangement
that they will not act against these people unless and until we hold these hearings
have witnesses testify naming these people as communists, give them a chance to be heard in their own defense
if they involve the amendment, they will then have certain rights.
They will be suspended if they do not withdraw that system and then claim
that there are certain rights of time they will be discharged.
I noticed in the newspaper two days ago that General Electric is just five, seven more people
from a defense plant as a result of hearing tell by this committee.
Mr. Kong, I do believe that you stated that if it was sent to Mr. Wilson that it would be handled just like the first case,
that's been the record.
I assume therefore that you have no confidence in the Secretary of Defense doing anything about this.
Sorry if I gave that impression sir, I did not say that.
I'm not a case that might not have any confidence in the Secretary of Defense.
I stand on what I said about the correct case sir.
We have not gotten that information.
We have never gotten it.
We've asked for it for a period of time.
On the practical problem here sir, the answer is to let this committee do its business and hold these hearings
and we can get those communists out of the defense plant very rapidly.
Well I thought you would say that it would be handled in the same way.
Maybe I'm along the record tomorrow or later today I think we'll speak for itself.
But your view is that the only way you're going to get any of these people out is to have a public hearing.
There's no point in advising the head of the agency of their election in advance so that they can take speedy action.
They can't say.
Well I'm not talking just about this case. How about matters where they're in the government?
Don't you think they ought to advise them at once?
Sir, I wouldn't want to talk in generality usually.
What do you think these specifics are?
Last March when the two-in-a-quarter page FBI file, lifting 35 names came in.
Why wasn't the Secretary of the Army advised in writing forth with that he had 35 of the list subversives?
Under his jurisdiction working on highly important and secret radar work.
First of all, after we received the information, that was the beginning for us.
We had to check it out, we had to assemble facts and evidence to know whether the information was well-founded, whether we could suspend-chated.
Well, it was from the FBI.
Sir, it was from the FBI but in the case of many of the individuals concerned, there was no derogatory information.
In other cases there was derogatory information which we had to check out ourselves.
We did that, we kept holding the case.
The second reason, sir, is that the reason the information-
Just before you get to the second reason, let me ask you this.
Isn't that report? Isn't it states that Aaron Coleman was an FBI agent?
Is right in that FBI?
I understand, sir. I am not supposed to discuss the contents of that report here.
Well, I mean, I'm not asking anything.
I haven't seen the document. Just a minute, Mr. Cohen. I haven't seen the document.
I'm only giving that which was volunteered by people other than myself after hearing.
And that was read into the record that he was an FBI agent.
And it was from the FBI. Why didn't you immediately advise Mr. Steven to have only been in office, I believe how long?
A month and a half or two months.
They had an FBI agent working in a highly secret radar laboratory.
He was in a state-of-the-sphere.
You may answer the question.
Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman.
The extended time is expected.
I may expect an inadvertent statement that's under Jackson-made.
I'm sure that inadvertent.
He said this was from the FBI files. The testimony was that this was from Army Intelligence.
That's the sworn testimony of myself under oath.
And therefore, the Army had all the information which we had.
Well, let me say this. And if the Senator disagrees, we have got nothing from the FBI.
I didn't say that you got it from the FBI.
The IDIDIS modified, reduced version of a report was one sent by the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
to G2 of the Army with a copy to the Air Force.
And if you can see the information that the FBI had obtained, it was an FBI report sent to the Department of the Army.
Am I wrong?
You may answer the question.
Can I be answered?
You may answer. No, I would say you're right, sir. The Senator McCawtty's point was we did not obtain it from the FBI site.
Nor did I trade the truth of opinion from the FBI.
We obtained it from the Army site.
And if I may answer your question, as to why we did not communicate with the Army about that, I would do that, sir.
The reason we did not communicate with them at that point.
On air and coal, in particular.
Yes, sir. On air and coal.
The Spires members actually may answer the question. There's going to be no other question.
Yes, sir.
The reason we did not communicate with the Army on air and coalmen in particular is that the gentleman who brought us the information told us that the people at the Army were well aware of the coalmen situation and of the other situations outlined in that memorandum.
And that the spice effect they were well aware of it.
They had not done anything about it and were not doing anything about it.
And they did not do anything about it until its committee began its work.
And that's right, sir.
Mr. Caron, we started the roll call delayed and so we made complete this round of questions receiving our pass.
Very good.
That is right, sir.
Please tell us the yield we got twenty seconds to make unparalleled observations.
Any objections?
And being out in air, funny kind of.
Mr. Caron, the unit of any instrumentality in our other government.
They have the solidities who issue a system of other than a committee of Congress or a court.
Most are by a court senate action.
I assume you include a sprangery which means with the inaliment of a court.
Most are, I know that with respect to Mr. Wilson.
He is an administrative officer in government.
He would have no authority to issue a subpoena and put not without the story certainly with respect to people.
Working in defense plans who are not in part of the government structure.
That's right, sir.
This job could be done by the committee and the committee alone.
It could not be done by Mr. Wilson.
Mr. Caron, I must say I am quite surprised about the defense plan people.
Now, you say that the Department of Defense has no authority to tell the people who are working in these plans to leave.
I do so.
Well, during the before just before I came into the government, I was in private industry.
And our plan was full of people from Air Force intelligence, Army intelligence, Navy intelligence.
And we not only worked close with the FBI, but actually their agents in my part, the world, my very good friends.
We discussed everybody that we knew that there might be any problem with.
If there was anybody they thought could get out, they'd gone out right away.
As a security risk now, is all that blown up?
No, we don't have any more of that now.
Most are perhaps the heads of some of the other businesses are not as diligent and not as you are.
But the fact is that I don't have to look at the future.
I can look at the past few months.
This committee has exposed a large number of current communist party members still working in 1953 and 1954 in defense plans.
The only control that defense department has as far as I know is control over security clearance.
And that control is not clear.
There are some instances we came across where that control is sort of divided between the defense department and between the private company.
One case I recall the private company has control up through confidential.
The defense department or the Navy.
Well, the company.
Now let's get out of this point.
The government is the buyer.
And the department of defense and great injustice, thickness of Wilson.
Mr. Stevens, who did run a big company.
If they told the seller, here, you're getting a lot of business from us.
We don't.
We've had a rise from a Senate McCarthy's committee.
Everybody would jump.
I think it's fair to say with that, to get rid of these people.
Now you get rid of them.
You still say it's a defense department.
Couldn't tell the people or even if they did, if they wouldn't get rid of them, the answer, sir.
Senator Simonton and I think that there's tremendous merit to some proposal being worked out,
whereby there would be greater control by the defense department.
But the way things stand now in 1954, sir, the answer to you probably would be.
What's the Mr. Wilson probably would be?
The people you want us to fire members of the United Electrical Workers Union,
which in many of us locals is a communist dominated union.
There is collective bargaining where they're recognized by the NLRP.
We have to deal with them.
We cannot fire those people.
We are sorry.
Do you mean that you think that you couldn't get rid of people in the plant
as you told the people that ran the plant that they were?
Security risk in the United States?
Have you given these 133 names to the FBI?
For me, sir.
No, sir, I don't think I've given them the FBI.
Well, the FBI is all of the United States,
and they worked very closely with the defense player.
Why not give the names to the FBI so that they try and get rid of them?
I will take a note, sir.
I'm sure that the FBI knows about these 133 and a lot more than we know about.
But if they know about them, wouldn't they tell the Department of Defense about them?
They would, sir.
If they do, then it wouldn't be a question of the Department of Defense not being able to fire them.
Well, yes, sir.
The Department of Defense says not, and it might sound ridiculous, but it's true.
The Department of Defense does not have the power to fire these people.
It's private and for your record.
For the record, when I was with the Air Force,
if anybody was to proper knowledge,
had come with respect to any security risk in any plant that was doing government business with the Air Force,
they would have either immediately gotten rid of those people
or the business would have been canceled.
And that, I believe we want to check this because it's incredible to me
that the American people through the Department of Defense are giving business to companies
where they are helpless about getting rid of security risk, or I might say three other ten points.
Having that yield, I would be mildest and in that they have three screening boards
or the countries divide into three sections for screening purposes.
I think they call them industrial security.
One section is under the control of the Army, one on the Navy and one on the Air Force,
for screening a personnel who worked in defense plants.
I don't know all about the authority, that screening board says.
Well, I can answer the senator's way, I don't know only what the board,
but I know that we worked with the intelligence of the three services
and also with the FBI and the three services intelligence were not sufficient.
But if anybody from the FBI ever told anybody in the plan to law work with,
that we had a security risk, he was out, regardless of boards or anything else.
And I believe that that would be true of the Secretary of Defense.
I do not think that he could stand on that situation, and I have enough respect for him to believe that he won't.
And I'd recommend even if it is inconvenient, and you don't give the name to another committee,
so that this committee isn't blamed for holding up the work.
I'd certainly give the name to the Department of Defense.
I'd give him to the federal bureau of investigation, and I'd say these people,
every minute, every day, they're in these plants, they're a danger, the security of the United States.
And we think that you ought to get rid of them and give the reasons why.
I am sure if you do that, that any manufacturer of government business,
if he gets that information from the buyer, he's going to get rid of those things.
I'm certainly sorry, I'm really sorry for your first question.
I'd be glad to hear.
We seem to be concerned about having a contract in the first and the next country,
our subversives.
I'm sure, remember this committee knows that under our 48-programmed law short for a firm,
that about $2 billion for a contract have been placed in European countries like Italy,
where 25% of the workmen belong to the community.
Well, I'd say to my good friend from Idaho, that could not be more true,
and if he'd be kind enough to read a report, that the distinguished senior senator from New Hampshire
and I have recently put out, he'd say just how worried we are about the condition
which he brings up.
Mr. Brennan report.
Mr. Chairman, I thank you.
I thank you, Senator.
Senator Simonton, if I can say that the reason is that his friend had reported,
primarily due to the send of his great staff.
Senator Simonton, if I might try to clarify this for you,
I don't know whether the defense department is entirely plainless or not.
I think that it hasn't suggested the fact that there are certain things which the defense department can do.
Under certain congressional acts, I know that there was at least one incident where the situation got so bad
that one department or another just issued an instruction to a company saying,
if you recognize such an union which is coming and decommunited, we will withdraw all our contracts.
That was at the know of the atomic laboratory of states in New York, where there was nothing.
Mr. Colton, I haven't got the ten minutes, but I would urge you, even if you do not think it would expedite
getting the defense risk out of these plans by giving it to another committee of the Congress.
I would urge that immediately the names be given to the FBI in order to take in a place
as far as the Department of Defense.
I'd like to proceed.
I'm sure the M.A.I. has.
I'd like to support, without reservation, the position taken by my colleague
with respect Mr. Chairman to why we left the committee.
At this point, I mentioned that the first paragraph of the Prouch Memorandum,
which I read quickly, has in its 1,000 terminus, they're in the army.
That is the way I remember reading the Prouch Memorandum.
Is that correct?
I believe that that was a testament based on his experience, which went back as such a long way.
Now, that's true.
Certainly a matter of that character should be brought up with the members of this committee,
and not just files, shouldn't it?
I've spent it assignment.
Once again, that goes into the operation of the committee and the small court trying to do a big job.
A lot of other things like that came in at the same time,
and later date, staring on other sensitive government agencies with equally alarming situation,
so that when we get something like that, we try to track it down.
Now, the two and a quarter-page memorandum talked about 35 subversive cases,
but the Prouch letter in March talked about 1,000 terminus in the army,
which would be 1,25th of all the terminus according to the FBI information in the United States.
Now, is that information never been given to the FBI?
I've sent it assignment and I am sure that the FBI has all of that information,
all of the names on the defense plan people, and a lot more.
Was the information given to the Department of Defense?
You got the letter to the Committee getting touch with the Department of Defense,
and say they had a document to show there were a thousand Communist members in the army,
or the Navy and the Air Force?
No, sir, it did not.
Mr. Chairman, I, some days ago, mentioned that Mr. Struv pencil was the chief lawyer of the Department of Defense.
While I have this opportunity, I'd like to correct that statement.
I understand that he was the chief lawyer, but that now he is the assistant secretary of defense.
In charge of foreign aid, I believe that's correct.
Mr. Cohn, you think a lot of the FBI, I'm right about that,
on I said no, organizational law enforcement agency in the world,
of which I think has much information for more.
Now, I agree with you about that, as you know,
and I'm back now on this question of information and informants.
Yes, sir.
I noticed that Senator Hickenlooper has this question of Mr. Hoover some years back in testimony.
He said, are you aware of any occasion when FBI investigative files have been made available by anybody to congressional committees
or to individual members of Congress?
I'm Mr. Hoover answered, I'm not aware of any loyalty reports being made available to any committee by any agency or any individual in the government,
because there is a direct, presidential directive so happening it.
I know insofar as a federal bureau of investigation is concerned, no confidential reports of the bureau have ever been made available to anybody.
Would you care to comment or notice remarks by Mr. Hoover?
No, sorry, I don't think they require any comment by me.
You believe that he is right in this position?
Sorry, you'll never get me to say Mr. Hoover is wrong in any position.
Then do you believe that you could have ever gotten this letter from the FBI?
But we have gotten this from the FBI, we could not have said.
But you did get it from the Army.
We got information from the Army, sir, that after the FBI had forwarded information to the Army,
the Army had ignored, but the FBI had sent in that there was an example of lack of information.
Why, why, just one more question, why is it wrong to get it from by the committee directly from the FBI?
It is right to get it from the FBI to the Army file, because there was not a question of...